Father of Indian Publishing
Shri Asoke K. Ghosh has rendered exemplary services to the cause of
education in India through his splendid contribution. He is the most admired
and respected figure in the Indian publishing Industry, which regards him
as the Father of Indian Publishing.
A Pioneer of Low-cost, High Quality Books
Believing in education for all, he is a visionary in pioneering low cost,
affordable, world-class books on a mass scale in India under the imprint
of Eastern Economy Editions in early 1960s.
First Publisher to Publish Computer Science Books in India
Envisaging the role of computer science and the need of indigenous books,
which coincides with the ‘Make in India’ dream of Honourable Prime
Minister Narendra Modi, he founded the base for publication of computer
science books in India by bringing out the first-ever book — Principles of
1
Computer Programming in 1969, when IBM’s second generation 1401 was
still at an introductory stage in the country.
Partnered with Microsoft and MIT to help Indian Academia
His publications not only encouraged Indian academia and scientists but
also caught attention of the world-giants Microsoft and MIT Press, who
chose to partner with him for publication of their books in India.
Mentor and Guide to Indian Publishers
The Federation of Indian Publishers (FIP), of which he is the Founder-
member, the president (twice), and the President Emeritus, holds
Shri Asoke K. Ghosh in high esteem and considers him as a mentor and
guide to the Indian Publishing industry.
Introduced Indian Publishing to the World
Born on 31st October, 1942, Shri Asoke K. Ghosh began his publishing journey
at the tender age of 11. It is none other than Ghosh in Indian publishing,
who struggled against odds to keep up the prestige of the country on the
world stage.
In 1991, International Publishers Association (IPA) honoured him with
its highest Outstanding Leadership Award for his “commitment to the
protection of creativity and freedom to publish”. He changed the discourse
of Indian publishing and raised its profile globally by bringing the 24th IPA
Congress to New Delhi in 1992 for the very first time. For his persevering,
pertinacious and unfailing nature he again proved to be a prime mover
and a driving force for the highly successful IPA Congress 2018 held in New
Delhi even at this age of 77.
2
Succeeded in Declaring Delhi as the UNESCO
World Book Capital City, 2003
Under his able leadership, Indian publishing gained prominence in the world.
He led several delegations across the globe leveraging internationalization
of Indian publishing and brought many prestigious moments to the country.
He was instrumental in bringing honour to Delhi when it was declared as
the UNESCO World Book Capital, for the very first time, in 2003.

Walk hand-in-hand with Digital India
He is visionary in pioneering Digital Editions of all his publications by
transforming a complete catalogue into E-books, as early as in 2007, when
no one in India could gauge its significance. The E-books produced by him
fully conforms to the format and demand of the present Digital India.

Promoted Reading Habit in Public
Being a member of IPA Executive Committee for many years, he has
served as Advisor and also on its various other committees. As a member
of Inclusive Publishing and Literacy (IPL) Committee of IPA, he made a
significant contribution in promoting the reading habit among the public.

Believe in Social Responsibility
Realizing his responsibility towards society, Shri Asoke K. Ghosh
devoted himself to humanitarian services by setting up the
Rimjhim Ghosh Foundation in memory of his younger daughter for providing
free education and healthcare services to the needy girl child.

Provided Base to Indian Academia for Designing Syllabus
Apart from making the books affordable to the economically disadvantaged
sections, the 5000 plus titles, published by Shri Asoke K. Ghosh have
invariably enlightened the academia of premier institutions like IITs, NITs,
IIITs and IIMs across the country. The books published by him are not only
adopted and recommended to the students for their benefit but also
proved their worth in redesigning the syllabi. Many of PHI titles, written
by Indian authors, have been recommended in 2018 syllabus of AICTE
under the leadership of its Chairman, Prof. Anil D. Sahasrabudhe.
Pledged to Support Transforming India
Since 1963, Shri Asoke K. Ghosh has been continuously providing a
prime platform to the Academics to bequeath their knowledge to future
generations, and is pledged to equip our modern generation students with
indigenous Print and Digital Editions of all his publications keeping pace
with the transforming India.